.TH GROUPCOVER 1 "JANUAR 2017" "Leipzig University Library" "Manuals"
.SH NAME
.PP
groupcover \- identifier\-based deduplication with groups.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCgroupcover\fR [\fB\fC\-prefs\fR \fIpreferences\fP] < \fIfile\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Deduplication on identifiers is simple, however it can be a more tedious, when
there are different key (e.g. ISIL) attached to an identifier, and the keys
need to be considered for a set of duplicates, with potentiall different
preferences per key.
.PP
The groupcover tool tries to by lazy in different ways:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Work on data, that only contains the necessary fields: identifier, group
(e.g. source\-id), value (e.g. DOI) and keys (e.g. ISIL).
.IP \(bu 2
Input data needs to be sorted by value (e.g. DOI) \- similar to 
.BR uniq (1).
.IP \(bu 2
Output only the rows, that contain changes.
.RE
.PP
With these simplifications, deduplication becomes a fast operation, taking
about 10min for a file with 150M rows and around 6M changes.
.PP
The more time\-consuming part will be the preparation of the input CSV
(\[la]https://git.io/vprui\[ra]) and the application of the changes
(\[la]https://git.io/vpru1\[ra]).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\fC\-cpuprofile\fR \fIfilename\fP
Write cpu profile to given filename.
.TP
\fB\fC\-f\fR \fIN\fP
Column number to use for grouping. One\-based, defaults to column 3. 
.TP
\fB\fC\-lower\fR
Lowercase the input for case\-insensitive values.
.TP
\fB\fC\-prefs\fR \fIstring\fP
A space separated list of strings, each string names a group (e.g. a source id).
.TP
\fB\fC\-version\fR
Program version.
.TP
\fB\fC\-verbose\fR
Show progress.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
As of early 2018, for AI (finc.info) the deduplication is realized with the following command:
.IP
\fB\fCgroupcover \-lower \-prefs '85 55 89 60 50 105 34 101 53 49 28 48 121' < a > b\fR
.PP
Where \fIa\fP and \fIb\fP are CSV files: \fB\fCid,source_id,doi,isil,isil,isil,...\fR \- with doi and isil being optional.
.SH BUGS
.PP
Please report bugs to \[la]https://github.com/miku/groupcover/issues\[ra]\&.
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Martin Czygan \[la]https://github.com/miku\[ra], \[la]martin.czygan@uni-leipzig.de\[ra]
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
FINC \[la]https://finc.info\[ra], AMSL \[la]http://amsl.technology/\[ra]
